
END USER SOFTWARE LICENSE AGREEMENT
IMPORTANT - READ CAREFULLY CAUTION:


IF YOU INSTALL OR USE THIS SOFTWARE, THE FOLLOWING TERMS WILL APPLY.


1. LICENSE GRANT. Subject to the terms and conditions of this End User Software
License Agreement ("Agreement"), Autonomy, Inc. or Verity, Inc. a part of the
Autonomy group, as applicable, ("Autonomy") grants you ("Licensee" a personal,
nonexclusive, non-transferable, non-assignable and non-sublicenseable, limited
license to use the software identified in an Autonomy Product Schedule signed
by Licensee, in binary executable form only (the "Software"), only in
accordance with the accompanying technical documentation ("Documentation";
collectively with the Software, the "Product"), and only as specified in the
applicable Autonomy Product Use Certificate and Product Schedule attached
thereto (collectively, the "Product Schedule"). "Software" does not refer to
source code and no license is granted with respect to source code of any kind.
Licensee acknowledges that the Software may be shipped with certain libraries
and other code that are not licensed under this Agreement, but rather are
provided to Licensee pursuant to the terms and conditions of separate
open-source license agreements ("Open Source Code"). Such separate license
terms are provided on the Product disc in the ThirdPartyLicense.txt file. Any
support warranty or indemnification Autonomy provides for the Product does not
extend to Open Source Code. Each Product Schedule shall be subject to the terms
and conditions of this Agreement, provided, however, that any conflict between
the terms and conditions of this Agreement and any Product Schedule shall be
resolved in favor of the Product Schedule. Except as expressly set forth in
this Agreement, Licensee shall not (directly or indirectly, in whole or in
part): (i) make more copies of the Product than the number of copies permitted
on the applicable Product Schedule, except for one (1) copy of the Software
solely for archival purposes; (ii) cause or permit any reverse engineering,
decompilation, modification, translation or disassembly of the Software; (iii)
sell, rent, sublicense, distribute, disclose, publish, assign, commercially
share (including time share), or otherwise transfer any rights in the Product
without Autonomy's prior written consent; (iv) use the Software for service
bureau services including, without limitation, providing third party hosting,
or third party application integration or application service provider type
services, or for any similar services; (v) permit any third party application
to access the collection of data indexed by the Software, or use the Software
to create or populate any other collection (except with Autonomy's prior
written consent); and (viii) will not, and will not permit to be done, anything
which shall adversely affect Autonomy's right, title or interest in or to the
Software. Notwithstanding the terms to the contrary in this section, to the
extent that the Product includes any Open Source Code that is licensed under
the GNU Lesser General Public License ("LGPL Code") or Apache Code, Licensee
may modify the Open Source Code in the Product for Licensee's own use and
reverse-engineer the Open Source Code in the Product solely to the extent
necessary to debug Licensee's modifications, in both cases solely to the extent
necessary for Licensee to modify the LGPL Code and/or Apache Code and relink
the modified LGPL Code/Apache Code to the Product. Title and ownership of all
proprietary rights, including any copyright, patent, trade secret, trademark or
other intellectual property rights, in and to the Product and any copies
thereof, including all updates, enhancements and modifications to the Software,
is and will at all times remain the property of Autonomy and its licensors.
Autonomy and its licensors retain all right, title and interest in and to the
Product that are not specifically granted to Licensee hereunder. Licensee shall
not remove or obliterate any copyright, trademark or proprietary rights notice
of Autonomy or its licensors from the Product and shall reproduce all such
notices on all authorized copies of the Product.


2. TERM AND TERMINATION. This Agreement may be terminated earlier by either
party on thirty (30) days written notice if the other party breaches any
material obligation hereunder and such breach is not cured within such thirty
(30) day period, unless such breach cannot be cured, in which case this
Agreement shall immediately terminate upon notice of termination. Without
prejudice to any other rights to which it may be entitled, Autonomy may give
notice in writing to Licensee terminating this Agreement with immediate effect
if Licensee: (a) becomes insolvent, (b) makes an assignment for the benefit of
creditors, (c) files or has filed against it a petition in bankruptcy or
seeking reorganization, (d) has a receiver appointed, (e) ceases conducting
business in the normal course, or (f) institutes any proceeding for liquidation
or winding up; provided, however, that, in the case any of the foregoing is
involuntary, Licensee shall only be in breach if such petition or proceeding
has not been dismissed within thirty (30) days. Upon termination, Licensee
shall immediately remove and cease to use the Product and will return to
Autonomy or destroy all copies of the Product or any part thereof (in any form
or media), and certify in writing to Autonomy that Licensee has complied with
the foregoing obligations.


3. SUPPORT. Licensee may elect to purchase and receive maintenance and support
services for Software in accordance with the Autonomy Support Program Terms and
Conditions, available at
http://www.autonomy.com/content/Support/TermsAndConditions.html ("Support
Services"). 4. LIMITED WARRANTY AND DISCLAIMER. Autonomy warrants to Licensee
that for a period of thirty (30) days from the date of initial delivery of the
Software to Licensee, the Software will substantially perform in accordance
with Autonomy's standard data sheets (available at
http://www.autonomy.com/datasheets). This warranty applies only to problems
reported by Licensee to Autonomy during the aforesaid warranty period. The
foregoing warranty shall not apply to any Software that has been modified other
than by Autonomy, or that has been improperly installed or used in any manner
other than as authorized under this Agreement. LICENSEE'S SOLE AND EXCLUSIVE
REMEDY UNDER ANY WARRANTY SHALL BE LIMITED, AT AUTONOMY'S DISCRETION, TO
SUPPORT OR REPLACEMENT OF THE SOFTWARE. TO THE FULLEST EXTENT PERMITTED BY
APPLICABLE LAW, AUTONOMY AND ITS LICENSORS DISCLAIM ANY AND ALL OTHER
WARRANTIES, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING, WITHOUT LIMITATION, THE IMPLIED
WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY, FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND
NONINFRINGEMENT. EXCEPT FOR THE LIMITED WARRANTY PROVIDED PURSUANT TO THIS
SECTION


4. THE PRODUCT IS PROVIDED "AS IS". AUTONOMY DOES NOT WARRANT THAT THE SOFTWARE
OR THE FUNCTIONS CONTAINED IN THE SOFTWARE WILL MEET LICENSEE'S REQUIREMENTS,
OPERATE WITHOUT INTERRUPTION OR BE ERROR FREE. Some states or jurisdictions do
not allow the exclusion of implied warranties or limitations on how long an
implied warranty may last, so the above limitations may not apply to Licensee.
To the extent permissible, any implied warranties are limited to thirty (30)
days. This warranty gives Licensee specific legal rights. Licensee may have
other rights, which vary from state to state or jurisdiction to jurisdiction.
For further warranty information, contact Autonomy's Legal Department at One
Market, Spear Tower, 19th Floor, San Francisco, California 94105.

5. LIMITATION OF LIABILITY. IN NO EVENT WILL AUTONOMY OR ITS LICENSORS BE
LIABLE FOR SPECIAL, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES (INCLUDING,
WITHOUT LIMITATION, LOST PROFITS, BUSINESS INTERRUPTION, AND LOSS OR INACCURACY
OF INFORMATION), REGARDLESS OF THE FORM OF ACTION, EVEN IF THE CLAIM WAS
REASONABLY FORESEEABLE OR IF AUTONOMY WAS ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH
DAMAGES. IN NO EVENT WILL AUTONOMY'S OR ITS LICENSORS' AGGREGATE LIABILITY
UNDER ANY AND ALL CLAIMS ARISING OUT OF THIS AGREEMENT EXCEED THE LICENSE FEES
PAID BY LICENSEE TO AUTONOMY FOR THE APPLICABLE SOFTWARE DURING THE TWELVE (12)
MONTH PERIOD PRECEDING THE INITIAL EVENT RESULTING IN SUCH CLAIMS. Some states
or jurisdictions do not allow the exclusion or limitation of incidental,
consequential or special damages, so the above exclusions and limitations may
not apply to Licensee.


6. CONFIDENTIALITY. Except as expressly and unambiguously permitted hereunder,
each party shall hold in confidence and not use or disclose any materials or
information disclosed by the other party that are confidential or proprietary,
or which may be reasonably regarded as the confidential information of the
other party ("Confidential Information"). Confidential Information will also
include the Software, Documentation, and any new product information or the
results of any benchmark or similar tests on the Software conducted by Licensee
or divulged by Licensee to Autonomy. Each party shall treat the other party's
Confidential Information with at least the same degree of care it uses to
prevent unauthorized disclosure or use of its own Confidential Information, but
in no event less than reasonable care. Confidential Information will not
include any materials or information that the recipient can prove (i) is now,
or later becomes, through no act or failure to act on the part of the receiving
party, generally known or available to the public; (ii) is known by the
receiving party at the time of disclosure as evidenced by its records; (iii) is
furnished to the receiving party by a third party, as a matter of right and
without restriction on disclosure; (iv) is independently developed by the
receiving party without any breach of this Agreement; (v) is the subject of a
written permission to disclose provided by the disclosing party; or (vi) is
disclosed in response to a valid order of a court or other governmental body.


7. FEES, PAYMENT AND DELIVERY. Invoices for license fees and support fees shall
be rendered to Licensee upon Autonomy's shipment of the Software. Unless
otherwise indicated in the Product Schedule, Licensee shall pay Autonomy the
fees set forth in the applicable invoice within thirty (30) days from the date
of invoice. All fees are exclusive of shipping, taxes, duties and other similar
fees, all of which shall be the responsibility of and shall be paid by
Licensee. A charge of one and one-half (1 1/2) percent per month will be
applied to all overdue invoices. Licensee agrees to pay for all reasonable
costs (including reasonable attorneys' fees) incurred in collecting past due
amounts under this Agreement. All shipments shall be ExWorks point of
manufacture (per Incoterms 2000). Delivery may be electronic, such as via FTP.


8. INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY RIGHTS. Licensee agrees to promptly notify Autonomy of
any known or suspected infringement or breach of Autonomy's proprietary rights.
Autonomy shall have the exclusive right to institute infringement or other
appropriate legal action against any alleged, prospective or actual
infringement of Autonomy's intellectual and other proprietary rights in the
Software, and shall retain all money received from such action. If the Software
or the operation of the Software becomes or, in Autonomy's opinion is likely to
become, the subject of a claim that it infringes the rights of any third party,
Licensee will permit Autonomy, at Autonomy's expense, to either: (i) procure
the right for Licensee to continue using the Software, or (ii) replace and
modify the Software so that it becomes non-infringing; provided that, if
neither of the foregoing alternatives is reasonable, Licensee will return the
Software to Autonomy and Autonomy will refund the price paid by Licensee for
the returned Software, depreciated on a straight-line basis over a five year
period, whereupon this Agreement shall terminate immediately. Notwithstanding
the foregoing, Autonomy shall not be liable for any such claim that arises as a
result of: (a) any modification of the Software by any party other than
Autonomy; (b) use of the Software otherwise than in accordance with the
Documentation; (c) combination of the Software with hardware or other software,
if such claim would have been avoided by not so combining the Software; or (d)
use of a superseded release of Software if the infringement would have been
avoided by the timely implementation of an update supplied by Autonomy. THE
FOREGOING STATES LICENSEE'S SOLE AND EXCLUSIVE REMEDY WITH RESPECT TO CLAIMS OF
INFRINGEMENT OF THIRD PARTY PROPRIETARY RIGHTS OF ANY KIND.

9. GOVERNMENT END USERS. The Software (a) was developed at private expense, is
existing computer software and no part of it was developed with government
funds; (b) is a trade secret of Autonomy for all purposes of the Freedom of
Information Act; (c) is commercial computer software submitted with only those
rights provided in the Agreement; (d) in all respects is proprietary data
belonging solely to Autonomy; and (e) is unpublished and all rights are
reserved under the copyright laws of the United States. For units of the
Department of Defense (DoD) this Software is licensed only with the rights
specified in this Agreement, and use, duplication or disclosure of the Software
is subject to the restrictions in this Agreement.


10. MARKETING, PUBLICITY AND BRANDING. Licensee agrees that Autonomy may use
Licensee's name to identify Licensee as an Autonomy customer. Licensee agrees
to place the Autonomy brand logo (e.g.,"Powered by Autonomy") on Licensee's
World Wide Web site, intranet or equivalent site, as applicable, in reasonable
proximity to any area thereof which provides functionality related to
Licensee's Use of the Software. Each party's use of the other party's
trademarks and logos will be in accordance with such other party's policies in
effect from time to time.


11. GENERAL. Capitalized terms used but not defined herein shall have the
meaning ascribed to them in the applicable Product Schedule. This Agreement
together with each applicable Product Schedule, contains the full and complete
understanding of the parties as to the subject matter hereof and may not be
altered or modified, except by written amendment which expressly refers to this
Agreement and which is duly executed by both Autonomy and Licensee. If any
purchase order made pursuant to this Agreement contains any terms which are
inconsistent with, or in addition to, this Agreement, such inconsistent or
additional purchase order terms shall be of no effect. Licensee shall not
transfer or assign this Agreement or any rights or obligations hereunder under
operation of law, change of control, or otherwise, without the prior written
consent of Autonomy. Any attempted assignment or transfer in violation of the
foregoing will be void. Licensee agrees that it will not export or re-export
the Product without the appropriate United States Government or any other
government licenses. This Agreement will be governed and interpreted in
accordance with the laws of the United States and the State of California,
without giving effect to principles of conflicts of law. The parties agree that
the United Nations Convention on Contracts for the International Sales of Goods
is specifically excluded from application to this Agreement. Any litigation
relating to the formation, interpretation or alleged breach of this Agreement
must be brought exclusively in the state and federal courts having jurisdiction
in San Francisco, California, and the parties irrevocably consent to the
jurisdiction of such courts. All notices required under this Agreement shall be
in writing and shall be deemed effective: (i) one (1) day after deposit with a
commercial overnight carrier, with written verification of actual receipt or
(ii) upon confirmation of receipt generated by the sending device, if sent by
facsimile. All notices must be delivered to the Legal Department of the other
party to the address on the applicable Product Schedule or to such other
address as a party may designate by written notice. Autonomy will have the
right to inspect Licensee's books and records at Licensee's facility as
reasonably necessary to verify that Licensee's use of the Product complies with
this Agreement. Autonomy shall provide Licensee with reasonable notice prior to
any inspections. Autonomy shall bear all costs and expenses associated with the
exercise of these rights, unless such inspection reveals that Licensee is not
in compliance with this Agreement, in which case, Licensee shall pay Autonomy
the reasonable costs of such inspection plus any additional license fees
related to unauthorized use of the Software. If any part of this Agreement is
found void and unenforceable, it will not affect the validity of the balance of
the Agreement, which shall remain valid and enforceable according to its terms.
The failure of a party to insist on the performance of an obligation hereunder
shall not be deemed to be a waiver of such obligation or of any other
obligation. Sections 1 (excluding the license grant), 2, 4, 5, 6, 7, 9 and 11
of this Agreement shall survive any termination or expiration of this
Agreement. The parties acknowledge and agree that a material breach of this
Agreement adversely affecting Autonomy's proprietary rights would cause
irreparable harm to Autonomy for which a remedy at law would be inadequate and
that Autonomy shall be entitled to injunctive relief in addition to any
remedies it may have hereunder or at law.

